Hi, welcome to my site! I'm a second-year undergrad at the University of Washington, Seattle studying astrophysics and poli sci. Right now, I want to be an astronomy professor or immigration attorney. My experience includes the Sloan Digital Sky Survey, NASA, McDonald Observatory. I also fix telescopes for the UW Manastash Ridge Observatory. Spent my most recent summers doing paperwork in refugee services for a local nonprofit.
I play the tenor saxophone and piano; I've been in just about every form of performing ensemble. Marching band, concert band, pit for musicals, even a singing group. But my favorite is jazz. In a past life, I was a classically trained singer, but I haven't done that in four odd years.
Best genre to listen to is probably still jazz. Favorite pianist? Oscar Peterson. Favorite saxophonist? It's a toss-up between Lester Young and Harold Land right now. I'm also partial to the entire discography of Gregory Alan Isakov. I saw him in concert last year, which was my second ever non-jazz live concert, and it was great. (I saw Coldplay in late 2022.) But I listen to everything, particularly AnnenMayKantereit who is a German band and Pomme, a French singer.
I started running three years ago and I'm currently training for a half-marathon. No specific race, but I find that setting imaginary goals helps me get out there. I also enjoy the occasional bike ride.
I'm also a big gardener. I've been growing carrots this summer and over Thanksgiving break, I'll plant some peppers. The Pacific Northwest isn't ideal for consistent sunlight and heat, but luckily my parents live in central Texas.
I mostly grew up in New England, but I graduated high school last year from a tiny private school in the Hill Country. Moving here is how I started running, and I've grown accustomed to the heat and the scorpions, but I chose to move back to the rain and cold so take that how you will. I definitely say y'all.
I'm really into puzzles; I recently completed a 500-piece Bigfoot and Starry Night Van Gogh crossover jigsaw. I try to be consistent with the New York Times games. Their new domino sum game is really fun. Not much into Pangram or Strands or Vertex and not very good at Connections. I do logic puzzles, sudoku, dot-to-dots, cryptography, etc.
Finally, I read and write a lot. I've written sermons, short stories, poems, screenplays, etc. Working on my first record. Don't have a favorite book: they're all good in their own way, but the book I return to most is The Anthropocene Reviewed by John Green. Currently reading about the history of malls.
Here's some random superlatives. Favorite subject in school: All of them, but mostly math or history Favorite color: yellow and purple Favorite bird: The chickadee or owl (favorite animal)
I've had a couple blogs in this past, but I want a real website that's "official" under my actual name.
