# All the pain money can’t buy 
### Saturday, May 2nd, 2026 11:07 AM PST 
### Seattle, WA 

This is an alteration of a Fastball album even though I only know two songs on it. Anyway, it’s been a while—hello! How’s it been? How’s the weather? I kind of forgot this blog existed, that writing was an option even. I am going to write on a 20-minute timer because the motivation hasn’t been hitting too hard and I hope this helps. It usually does.

Things have not been going great this week. Don’t get me wrong, it wasn’t hell on earth or anything. I did really well on a physics midterm. I went to a baseball game with my friends, I got some new books at the library that I really will read soon, I started running very fast. I went to my first protest which was generally fun. My supervisor at lab gave me a dozen eggs from the chickens he raises, I finally got my interferometer to work because I started putting in just a little more effort. And part of the bad led to good: I had a morning full of self-confidence and self-esteem the likes of which I have not had in many a month. But some of the good led to bad as well.

I have been in an almost, sort of, not quite relationship with a guy for about a month now. He is a very kind, very lovely person and I fell for him pretty hard. (Actually not at first, and in fact I almost ended things after a couple days. But I didn’t, and now we’re here.) He checked the boxes I didn’t know I had, the green flags that actually were just requirements. He’s really just a fascinating person to be around. But he’s also dealing with a sudden shift in his personal life and a relationship, no matter how wonderful, is not his priority. 

That’s all you need to know about him specifically because some things should stay private, even though he will never find this blog. I realized that we’re not really talking anymore so even if he does start a conversation again, I might not reciprocate because I’ve spent too much mental energy on this situation for too long. Which is what I actually want to write about.  

I think I have very high standards for who I associate myself with most of the time, and especially in my romantic partners. That doesn’t mean that they have to be perfect, this man certainly wasn’t, and I “loved” this guy so I had even made some concessions. But I will not tolerate certain things: for instance, someone I “used to associate with” was very rude to a demographic that I do a lot of volunteer work for, whose plights I am very empathetic to particularly. That was the last straw and I ended things. I stuck around with that guy for much longer than I should have, but that’s a conversation my friends bring up when they’re a little inebriated. ;) 

I have been single for almost my whole life after all and I am not about to settle for a man! But I have had to convince myself again that I am actually very happy being single. It’s difficult to believe right now, and generally handling relationships is such a case-by-case, individual-specific endeavor. Romantic relationships are still a lot of work! This other person depends on you constantly for physical and emotional support, and they can easily shift your priorities when, as a student, I always need to put my education first. I slept way later than I should have, started doing homework at the last minute, and gave up on some hobbies just to see three dots in a bubble. That would have stopped once things settled down, but even in the whirlwind of the rose-colored glasses, it never should have started. But I found the external validation we all crave in this person; having his attention was literally a high from my brain chemicals. It gave me self-confidence and reassurance when the doubt crept in, as is its habit. Especially, ironically, towards the end, I had no doubt that this person liked me and wanted to be with me.  

The thing is, though, that self-confidence is exactly that: it has to come from you. I innately believe that I am morally good, that I am kind and funny and smart and passionate and brave. This doesn’t mean that I like myself all the time; it’s normal not to. But in times like these where I’m filled with self-doubt and anxiety, worrying about what another person thinks about me and what their actions mean, I know that I will get through this like I have gotten through everything else before because these core beliefs still remain. I know that I am a great person who is loved by many with a bright future ahead of me regardless of if this person is part of it or not.  

Actually, an interesting thing about this process was me realizing that I also have the capacity to be a bad partner.  Bear with me, I don’t mean that so egotistically. Besides things like abuse or assault or cheating etc., we are all human and infallible and we have all hurt someone else before and been a bad person. I can be insensitive; I can be too emotional or too clingy or too distant. This is not a quality saved for complaints about other people on scrollable text threads with my girlies; we all do these things. And I think it is really important to recognize that, to stop having main character energy even if you are not a bad person. I think it’s something we do subtly because it’s genuinely difficult to reflect on your own actions, because to you, it was always the right decision. They are not always the problem, and neither are you, because we are just merely human. 

For example, I almost had a conversation with this man last week about [something] but before I sent the message, I had the wherewithal to text a friend asking if it was good. I was expecting a yes because I knew what I’d written was quite thoughtful and respectful. Or so I thought. I mean, it *was* thoughtful and it *was* a good message. It was just not the right time to send that particular thing because even if I only talked about my own feelings there, my friend said they can still influence his decision making, which is not fair to him. I would be a bad almost-girlfriend if I sent that message even if I only had good intentions. 
I know I mentioned that I have high standards for others, but I also have them for myself. I think very hard about how I handle emotional situations; I am reminded of a friend from school whose [very close person] passed away recently. It was not sudden, and I found out through Instagram, but I really mulled over my words for a long time and texted them intentionally after a certain time window. That is a quality I pride myself in, but I am also very intense about holding myself to that every time. 

When I had a rough conversation with the man that inspired this blog, I didn’t necessarily overthink my words, but I was very intentional about everything I said. He’d said “I’m sorry” in his reply, and instinctively I started to text that I was sorry too… before I realized that I actually wasn’t. I told him what I did because I feel it and I prioritize honest communication especially in a serious romantic relationship. I am not sorry about anything, so I did not apologize. 
(Sometimes, I do believe in apologizing even when I’m not sorry because it’s not for you, it’s for them—we need phrases sometimes to show people that we do care. But this was not one of those times.)

And here’s (part of) why it has taken so long to get over this: I built up this image of a person in my head who doesn’t necessarily exist! Don’t get me wrong, I have never idolized this guy and in fact, I was very intentional and careful not to. But I got very attached especially in the last week when things turned more future-focused and that made suddenly losing him very difficult, because my emotions have convinced the emotional part of my brain that I need him to be happy when that’s not true at all. 

I know I said at the start that I might not reciprocate if this guy wants to start again. I really really want to but I need to recognize what’s best for me is to take things slower than they already are and refocus on my life with the man as an extra, not the main course.  

I learn something from every experience and here, I will try not to put my emotions before my brain in my next relationship, even if it is with the same person. Work with the information you have, don’t let them consume your every thought, and take things a little slower: to both the reader and myself, stop assuming you will death-till-you-part with a random person when you don’t even know their birthday!! All the world’s a stage, and our emotions are the real puppeteers. 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

I can finally talk about my summer internship! I am going to be working at the Lawrence Berkeley National Lab in California for the whole summer, on the DESI survey: the Dark Energy Spectroscopic Instrument. They have these robotic arms that hold up the fiber-optic cables that measure the spectra, which I’m super excited to work on. I think it will be a really great experience and I am grateful to have it at all. I mostly got rejected from every other program, because that’s just how these things go (over 1000 applicants?! For like 5-10 positions?!) but I look forward to being a California girlie. 

I’m also learning how to drive?! Finally?! Yesterday, I drove from the U-District up to Shoreline/Lake Forest Park and back which was exactly a half-marathon drive. I changed lanes! I can pretty much drive now, I parallel park and back out of driveways. I should learn how to U-turn soon… but that’s about it. I am hoping to get my license by the end of this month. So, my plan in California is to first go from Seattle to L.A. to see a friend from high school and then my dad and I will drive up to San Francisco the scenic way. I actually love driving, and my driving instructor is such a nice guy. 

I am not quite sad but I still miss this guy, and I might for a little bit longer. But I know how I want to handle this so I can’t break away from that. I’m really thinking about asking out another guy, but I either won’t do that or will not mention that on this blog for a while. I hope to write more here! I have a lot of thoughts. 

Beyond that, I’m heading up to MRO next weekend, then I go home very soon to see my family after 4 months. I’ve got some great new library books too. Things look up, as they always do, even with all the pain money can’t buy. 
